LAB:- Google Cloud Fundamentals: Getting Started With Compute Engine
Overview
In this lab, you will create virtual machines (VMs) and connect to them. You will also create connections between the instances.
Objectives:
In this lab, you will learn how to perform the following tasks:
•	Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.
•	Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface.
•	Connect between the two instances.
STEPS
1.	Create a compute engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform console

       gcloud compute instance create my-vm-1 --machine-type “n-standard-1” --image-project “debian-cloud” --image “debian-9-stretch-20190213” --subnet “default” --tags “http”

       gcloud compute instance firewall-rules create allow-http --action=ALLOW --destination=INGRESS --rules=http80 --target-tags=http

2.	Create a compute engine virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface

          gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b 

          gcloud compute instance create “my-vm-2” \ --machine-type “n1-standard-1” \ --image-project “debian-cloud” \ --image “debian-9-stretch-20190213” \ --subnet “default”

3.	Connect between the two VM instances
a.	Use the ping command to confirm that my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the network:

- Connect to my-vm-2

   gcloud compute ssh my-vm-2

- Ping my-vm-1 from my-vm-2:

   ping -c 4 my-vm-1  

- Use SSH command to open a command prompt on my-vm-1 from my-vm-2:

  ssh my-vm-1

- At the command prompt on my-vm-1, install the Nginx web server:

  sudo app-get install nginx-light –y

- Use the nano text editor to add a custom message to the home page of the web server:

  sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html

- Use the arrow keys to move the cursor to the line just below the h1 header. Add text like this, and replace YOUR_NAME with your name:

Hello from Anthony Tobiloba

- Exit the nano editor and Confirm that the web server is serving your new page. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

  curl http//localhost/

  The response or result will be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.

- To exit the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

  exit

  You will return to the command prompt on my-vm-2

- To confirm that my-vm-2 can reach the web server on my-vm-1, at the command prompt on my-vm-2, execute this command:

  curl http://my-vm-1/

  The response will again be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.



b.	How to get the external IP address of my-vm-1 from this command:

          gcloud compute instances list --zone us-central1-b


c.	Paste the copied IP address of my-vm-1 into the address bar of a new browser tab and hit enter.

         You will see your web server's home page, including your custom text.
